So the reach and impact of
artificial intelligence
in FinTech is obviously
broad and deep.
To get a sense of
the various kinds of
applications and a number
of companies that have targeted
activity in those areas,
it's useful to take a look at
a map like the CB Insights,
AI and FinTech market map.
Some companies have focused on
the B2C market in providing
personal financial advice
or financial assistance,
in some cases providing
aggregation services
or financial advice
or wealth management services.
Others have focused
more directly,
although in some cases still in
the B2C arena on
quantitative asset management,
either again, at
the trading level
or at the general portfolio
allocation level.
Insures find all kinds of
uses of artificial
intelligence ranging from
credit risk management to
claims integrity across
the value chain in the industry.
Market research
including the analysis
of market sentiment has
become a burgeoning area
of both investment and
product development.
The ability to reduce
the dimensionality of very
complicated structured
including numerical data as
well as unstructured data
ranging from news streams
across multiple languages
to images and so on delivered to
the desktop of
financial professionals
is really quite raging.
Debt collection and
the ability to follow
people who have debts
across time and
across geographies is
an advancing arena
of both investment and activity,
and the mundane task of
expense reporting and
tracking business
activities has become
a natural arena in which
artificial intelligence
has the possibility
of improving outcomes
for its users.
Predictive analytics which
is about as broad and
areas one can imagine has seen
tremendous investment
and also has promised
some substantial outcomes again,
including unseen possibilities.
As a personal example,
a couple years ago
at a conference
for the Jacobs Levy Center
that I run at Wharton,
we had a paper describing how
the financial crisis potentially
could have been better
identified as far back as 2005,
based on predictive analytics
and big data analysis of
both statements and
financial reporting
from financial services firms.
Using internal or external data,
the artificial
intelligence applications
for detecting fraud,
regulatory compliance,
the bailiwick of
chief compliance officers
and others is a natural locus
for artificial
intelligence applications.
Even the gray area of
aggressiveness in disclosures,
accounting statements,
and corporate activity
has been linked
back to analysis of
unstructured data.
For example,
some articles have been
published including in
the top accounting journals,
suggesting that
C-Suite Executive behavior
which is detectable
using pictures
which represent levels
of testosterone
in executive biologies
are related to again,
accounting aggressiveness
and in some cases fraud.
Finally, last but not least,
the ability to score
credits, understand risks,
make lending decisions especially
when multiple sources of
data can be combined,
especially if they're
in different formats or
very high pay-off areas for
artificial intelligence.